{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16300\viewh18380\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 FAQ:\
Q: What is "LiBCM"?\
A: LiBCM is a replacement hybrid battery computer for the original Honda Insight (2000-2006).\
A: LiBCM allows Insight to \ul safely\ulnone  use modern lithium batteries (instead of the original NiMH cells).\
\
Q: Can I use LiBCM with the original NiMH cells?\
A: From a technical standpoint: yes... you'd need change the firmware.  I will not help you do that.\
A: I can't think of a reason why you'd want to do this.\
\
Q: Can I use LiBCM without any battery at all (e.g. as a defeat device to pass emissions)?\
A: From a technical standpoint: yes... you'd need change the firmware.  I will not help you do that.\
A: From a legal standpoint: per 42 USC 7522, defeating an emissions component is illegal in the United States.\
A: Note that there are several cheap/free methods to defeat IMA-related P-codes in the G1 Honda Insight.\
\
Q: Is LiBCM legal to use on roadways in the United States?\
A: Yes, per the "Clean Alternative Fuel Vehicle and Engine Conversions Act", passed in 2011.\
A: See 40 CFR parts 85 & 86.\
\
Q: Which lithium chemistries will LiBCM work with?\
A: LiBCM's hardware supports all known lithium cell chemistries.\
A: The firmware defaults attempt to keep each cell between 3.25 volts (10% SoC) and 3.9 volts (85% SoC), with absolute max values between 3.00 volts (0% SoC) and 4.2 volts (100% SoC).  \
A: These values can be changed (at your own risk) to any value between 1.1 & 5.0 volts.\
\
Q: How "open source" is LiBCM?\
A: 100%.  The entire design is located here: github.com/doppelhub/Honda_Insight_LiBCM\
\
Q: Can I manufacture and sell my own LiBCM modules?\
A: Yes, except that you cannot use the names 'LiBCM' or 'Linsight', which is trademarked.\
A: Full disclosure: you probably won't make any money doing it.\
\
Q: Does LiBCM work with other vehicles (besides the G1 Honda Insight)?\
A: No.\
\
Q: Can I make LiBCM work with other vehicles?\
A: If you are technically competent, you can do whatever you want with LiBCM.  LiBCM is entirely open source.\
A: I'm not interested in 'porting' the design to other vehicles.\
A: If you expect me to 'port' LiBCM for you, expect me to charge you an hourly rate.\
\
Q: Do I really need a battery management system (BMS) to use lithium batteries?  I've seen lithium conversions that don't use them.\
A: Most lithium battery chemistries are unstable outside of a narrow voltage range.  As a pack is charged/discharged, each cells' voltage can drift away\
A: Operating a lithium battery without a BMS \
\
Q: Why is LiBCM so expensive?\
A: It's not.\
A: As of this writing, I've personally invested more than 1600 hours designing LiBCM.  I estimate that each LiBCM Kit will take 4 hours to manufacture.  Assuming I sell QTY250 LiBCM units, I'll have invested 2600 hours into the LiBCM project, which works out to 13 hours of labor per shipped LiBCM unit.  Honestly I should charge quite a bit more for LiBCM, but it's a labor of love... I'm not in this for the money.\
\
Q: How do I pronounce the name?\
A: Layman's terms: Say the five letters separately (L, I, B, C, M)\
A: Phonetic: El+Eye+Bee+Sea+'Em \
A: IPA: '\uc0\u603 l'a\u618 \u712 bi\u712 si\u712 \u603 m`\
\
Q: What new features does LiBCM add?\
A: More power!  LiBCM can more than double the original hybrid power output.\
A: Effortless grid charging comes standard.  Plug LiBCM into an extension cord; LiBCM handles everything else.\
A: Per-cell voltage measurements.  Diagnose pack issues down to the specific cell.\
A: Custom LCD screen reports real-time hybrid pack data to the driver.\
A: Advanced USB diagnostic data.  Log data to your computer as you drive.\
A: USB firmware updates... add new features as they become available\
A: LiBCM can cool the battery while the car is off.\
   \
Q: How can LiBCM "more than double the original hybrid power output"?  Is that safe?\
A: Insight's NiMH cells are the weakest link in the original hybrid electric design.  LiBCM replaces the dated NiMH cell design with modern lithium cells, which can handle considerably more power.  In fact, the 5 Ah lithium modules LiBCM is primarily designed for can safely source\
\
Q: Does LiBCM work with CVT transmissions?\
A: Yes.\
\
Q: Does LiBCM work with 2005 & 2006 Honda Insights?\
A: Yes.\
\
Q: My IMA/CEL light is on.  Will LiBCM 'fix' that?\
A: If the IMA issue is due to a failing NiMH battery, then yes.\
A: LiBCM will not 'correct' any other IMA/CEL error.  \
\
Q: How long will LiBCM's lithium battery last?\
A: Panasonic's datasheet specifies their cell will retain 80% of original capacity after 10 years.\
A: The 5 Ah EHW5 Panasonic cell is rated for 50,000 cycles (10-85% SoC) with a continuous 40 A charge/discharge test.  \
\
Q: What are the best ways to maximize battery life?\
A: In warm weather, park Insight out of direct sunlight.\
A: When temperatures drop below freezing for extended periods, park Insight in direct sunlight (to increase pack temperature during the day). \
A: Grid charge the battery whenever the cell voltage delta exceeds 25 mV (LiBCM balances the cells while grid charging).\
\
Q: What is LiBCM's recommended ambient operating temperature range?\
A: -30 degC to 55 degC\
\
Q: What safety features does LiBCM use to prevent electrocution?\
A: Safety is LiBCM's primary goal.\
A: Once the safety cover is installed, all user-accessible cables.\
\
Q: What happens if my Insight is in a wreck?\
A:\
\
Q: Is LiBCM better than the original hybrid computer?\
A: Absolutely, and in every way.\
A: LiBCM replaces Honda's poorly designed "Battery Condition Module" ('BCM'),   How many times have you replaced your NiMH battery over the past 20 years?   which causes the original NiMH batteries to fail after just a few years.\
A: Modern lithium batteries consume less power internally (under load).  Less wasted energy in the pack equals more energy delivered to the wheels.   \
\
Q: What is a "Drop-In LiBCM Battery"?\
A: The system I recommend you buy.\
A: A completely assembled lithium battery - contained within the original plastic battery housing - with the LiBCM computer already connected and ready to go.  \
\
Q: Where do I purchase a Drop-In LiBCM Battery?\
A: BumbleBatteries.com is the primary Drop-In LiBCM Battery distributor.\
A: The following insightcentral.net members are authorized to install \
A: I do not sell Drop-In LiBCM Batteries directly to customers.  However, I do offer an "LiBCM Kit" for sale to anyone who can pass my safety quiz.\
\
Q: What is an "LiBCM Kit"?\
A: An LiBCM Kit includes every single part required to convert a stock Honda Insight to use lithium batteries...\
...EXCEPT that a kit does not include the actual lithium batteries.\
\
Q: How often should I grid charge?\
A: Grid charging is only necessary when the resting cell voltages become severely unbalanced.  However, I recommend grid charging as often as possible.  Starting each trip with a full pack allows you to use assist without worrying about the mpg penalty required to recharge the pack.  \
A: With LiBCM, there's no 'guesswork'... LiBCM's LCD display will tell you when grid charging is necessary.\
\
Q: Can I leave the grid charger plugged in?\
A: Yes, for as long (or as little) as you'd like.  LiBCM 100% handles grid charging, just like any other modern lithium vehicle.\
\
Q: Why is LiBCM better than the original?\
\
\
Q: How hard is LiBCM to install?\
\
Q: What vehicles does LiBCM work with?\
A: LiBCM is designed specifically for the G1 Honda Insight (2000-2006).  \
\
Q: How many cells in series does LiBCM support?\
\
Q: Will LiBCM make my car faster?\
A: Absolutely.  The difference is night-and-day.  Once you drive an LiBCM-equipped Insight, you'll never want to switch back.\
\
Q: How do I grid charge LiBCM?  \
A: With the key off, plug LiBCM's NEMA 5-15P power cable into an extension cord.\
\
Q: How often do I need to grid charge?\
A: I recommend grid charging whenever possible, so that the battery is charged at the beginning of each drive cycle.\
\
Q: Is LiBCM open source?\
A: Absolutely 100%.  You can view the entire design here:\
github.com/doppelhub/Honda_Insight_LiBCM\
\
Q: What's included with the "LiBCM Kit"?\
A: Short answer: everything except the actual lithium battery modules.\
A: LiBCM Kits include:\
	-QTY1 LiBCM PCB, with clear safety cover\
	-QTY3 aluminum end plates, to secure each battery module to the OEM enclosure\
	-QTY6 high current cables\
	-QTY2 low current cables\
	-QTY1 grid charger, with harness\
	-QTY1 2.5 mm hex wrench\
	-QTY3 BMS sense lead adapters\
	-QTY4 8" zip ties\
	-QTY2 wire nuts\
	-QTY1 4x20 character LCD screen, with cable\
\
Q: What additional items are needed to use an LiBCM Kit with my Honda Insight?\
A: Lithium battery modules.\
\
Q: Where do I get lithium battery modules?\
A: LiBCM is primarily intended for use with Panasonic EHW5 modules, which are (probably) used in the following vehicles (I have not personally verified this):\
	-2019+ Honda Insight (Honda part number 1D070-6L2-A00)\
	-2018-2020 Accord Hybrid (Honda part number 1D070-6C2-305)              \
\
Q: What is LiBCM's warranty period?\
A: "Drop-In LiBCM Batteries" are warranted per the terms of the authorized reseller.\
A: From a legal standpoint, "LiBCM Kits" are provided as-is, without any warranty whatsoever.  Note that each Each LiBCM Kit is 100% test driven prior to shipment.  However, I will make reasonable efforts to repair defective components at my actual cost, regardless of fault.  If the LiBCM PCB cannot be safely repaired, I will replace the entire PCB at a reduced cost. \
A:   On a case-by-case basis, if I determine the failure occurred at no fault of the user, I will repair the PCB for free, excluding shipping costs.\
\
Q:   \
\
Q: What tools are required to install an LiBCM Kit into ?\
A: Installing an LiBCM Kit into the OEM battery housing requires:\
	-1.25" hole saw\
	-5/32" drill\
	-_____ drill (low current HVDC cables)\
	-#2 Phillips driver\
	-#3 Phillips driver\
	-2.5 mm width flat blade driver\
	-2.5 mm hex wrench\
	- \
\
\
Q: Where is LiBCM manufactured?\
A: In my garage in Chattanooga, TN, using globally sourced parts.\
\
Q: What portions of the original hybrid system does LiBCM replace?\
A: LiBCM replaces the two weakest links in Honda's original hybrid design:\
-The original "Battery Condition Module" ('BCM'), which is poorly designed and notoriously bad at preserving pack health.\
-The NiMH cells, and all assosiated cables that physically contact the cells.\
\
Q: What portions of the original hybrid system are retained?\
A: Everything else:\
-The electric motor (inside the engine)\
-The high current harness that connects the engine to the hybrid bay\
-The high-power motor driver unit\
-The DCDC converter\
-The hybrid MDM computer, which works in tandem with LiBCM.\
-All cabling and connectors between the various hybrid subsystems, except that a \ul single\ulnone  wire must be cut (and then manually rewired into the LiBCM circuit board).\
\
Q: Will LiBCM work with my _____ lithium battery?\
A: Yes, as long as the total number of cells is series is QTY60 or fewer.\
\
Q: Will LiBCM make my car heavier?\
A: A Drop-In LiBCM Battery is 20 pounds lighter than the original NiMH system it replaces.\
A: Larger lithium batteries will  \
\
Q: What aftermarket accessories are compatible with LiBCM?\
A: Any accessory whose wiring doesn't physically connect to wires inside the IMA bay.\
A: Any accessory that modifies the signals between the MCM & ECM (e.g. IMAC&C).\
A: So-called "current hacks", except that LiBCM can spoof the battery current sensor in software.  If you'd rather leave the entire 'current hack' in place, you can disable said software spoofing (and use your existing hardware instead).  LiBCM is specifically designed for use with the (excellent) "Current Hack PCB", designed by @retepsnikrep & @Bull Dog.\
\
Q: What aftermarket accessories are NOT compatible with LiBCM?\
A: Any and all NiMH-based grid chargers, which are dangerous to use with LiBCM.  LiBCM's built-in grid charger makes these unnecessary.\
A: Dischargers of any kind.  LiBCM's built-in balancing hardware makes these unnecessary. \
A: Any device that intercepts/modifies data from the BATTSCI data bus (which routes from the BCM to the MCM).\
\
Q: If I decide the LiBCM Kit isn't for me, can I get a refund?\
A: Yes, and you don't need to state a reason.  I will refund your entire purchase price - minus shipping - for any reason whatsoever.  However, if any portion of the LiBCM Kit is returned damaged, I will charge a reasonable fee to cover the repair.\
A: Note that I do not sell Drop-In LiBCM Batteries directly to end users (only LiBCM Kits).  Therefore, if you purchase a Drop-In LiBCM Battery from an authorized installer and decide it isn't for you, then you'll need to contact the installer directly (and go by their terms).\
\
Q: If I convert a car to use LiBCM - and then later decide to go back to NiMH - how easy is it to convert back to the original NiMH configuration?\
A: If you follow the LiBCM installation instructions, the entire process is electrically reversible.  Mechanically, there will be a few leftover holes, but they do not affect the original NiMH functionality.\
A: Since LiBCM only modifies components within the original battery enclosure, the simplest method to convert back to NiMH is to purchase an additional NiMH battery enclosure.\
A: If there's any chance you might want to revert back to NiMH later, watch this video prior to converting to LiBCM for key points to look out for when performing the conversion modifications.\
\
Q: Why doesn't LiBCM support ____________?\
A: Maybe it should?  I'm all ears for any and all feature requests.\
A: Before submitting a feature request, please check <here> to make sure I haven't already added the feature to my "todo" list, or placed it on my "never going to happen" list.\
\
Q: How long can I leave my LiBCM-equipped Insight parked without charging (e.g. at the airport)?\
A: This primarily depends on the initial SoC and the ambient temperature.  But in general:\
	-Best case (mild temperature and 100% initial SoC): 3 years\
	-Worst case (	extreme temperatures and 10% initial SoC): 3 months\
\
Q: If I plan to park my Insight longer than the above figures, how do I prevent LiBCM from completely discharging my battery to empty?\
A: Grid charge the battery until full, then:\
	-(Ideal): Leave the grid charger plugged in as long as the car is in storage.\
	-(Acceptable): Turn the IMA master switch off.\
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Shipping:\
\
Q: Do you \
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
Safety:\
\
Q: Is the LiBCM Kit dangerous to install?\
A: Absolutely.  LiBCM can easily kill you if you don't follow the installation instructions.}